Plain-text extraction of the OMB/OPM Federal HR 2.0 memo (Dec 10, 2025), extracted 2026-07-23 from Federal_HR20_Core_HCM_memo_2025-12-10.pdf. The PDF is authoritative.

---


                          U.S. Office of
U.S. Office of
                          Management and Budget
Personnel Management

MEMORANDUM



TO:
Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies
FROM:
Russell T. Vought, Director, Office of Management and Budget
Scott Kupor, Director, Office of Personnel Management

DATE:
December 10, 2025

RE:
Creating “Federal HR 2.0” by Consolidating Core Human Capital
Management Across the Federal Government

For too long, the Federal Government has lacked what is taken for granted at any other
organization—a single system of record for personnel management. Instead, the Federal
Government spends an inordinate amount each year on numerous costly, duplicative, and outdated
core human capital management (“Core HCM”) systems. The Federal Government currently has
more than 100 unique Core HCM software systems across numerous agencies. Outdated and
duplicative Core HCM systems waste taxpayer money, hurt the Federal Government’s operational
efficiency, make it costly to gather and report on critical human resources (HR) data, and burden
Federal agencies and employees with delays and unnecessary work.

President Trump has made it a key priority to “eliminat[e] bureaucratic duplication and
inefficiency”1 and save taxpayer money. As part of their “efforts to maximally consolidate and
coordinate Federal HR services and Federal HR IT platforms governmentwide to create
efficiencies, enhance quality, and reduce redundancies,”2 the Office of Management and Budget
(OMB) and Office of Personnel Management (OPM) are leading efforts to procure a modern, best-
in-class commercial Core HCM system for the entire Federal Government with the goal of
government-wide adoption by FY 2028.3 Implementing a government-wide Core HCM system
will serve as a cornerstone for the broader “Federal HR 2.0” initiative, creating efficiencies in
Federal human capital management and facilitating more effective management of the Federal
workforce as a unified entity. When fully implemented through the consolidation both of Core
HCM systems and of HR services, the Federal HR 2.0 initiative will lead to billions in taxpayer
savings.4

I.
Consolidating Core HCM Across the Federal Government

Over the next two years, led by OMB and OPM, the Federal Government will transition to

1 President Trump, Executive Order 14243, Stopping Waste, Fraud, and Abuse by Eliminating Information
Silos (Mar. 20, 2025).
2 White House Domestic Policy Council & OPM, Merit Hiring Plan, at p. 8 (May 29, 2025).
3 This effort will not initially include military personnel and Intelligence Community agencies. OMB and
OPM will evaluate eventually expanding the project to include these populations.
4 OPM will address HR services consolidation in a subsequent memorandum.









2

a single Core HCM platform, which will encompass the following functions: personnel action
processing, employee system of record, position management, employee and manager self-service,
analytics and dashboards, time and attendance, and learning. OPM is leading a procurement effort
to identify a vendor to implement the new Core HCM system consistent with Federal requirements.
The Core HCM system will integrate with other Federal HR IT systems (such as payroll, benefits,
talent acquisition, performance management, and retirement) to ensure a seamless flow of
information across various HR functions. The system will include comprehensive security controls
to protect employee information.

The transition onto a single Core HCM platform will be divided into two waves of
implementation, as detailed in Appendix A. Wave 1 agencies are planned to begin transition in
fiscal year (FY) 2026, with Wave 2 agencies following in FY 2027. This approach will allow for
significant interagency feedback and collaboration to help ensure successful implementation.
Appendix B provides a sample timeline for an agency onboarding onto a single Core HCM system.

OMB and OPM will continue to transition agencies to using the electronic Official
Personnel Folder (eOPF) and Enterprise Human Resources Integration (EHRI) systems.
Eventually, the single Core HCM system will make these systems redundant, and allow for their
decommissioning and elimination. The new Core HCM system will also integrate with OPM’s
online retirement system.

As part of HR 2.0, OMB and OPM will evaluate HR IT systems covering the remaining
parts of the Federal employee lifecycle to “improve service performance and quality, enhance
customer satisfaction, and reduce costs.”5 Through the HR Quality Services Management Office,
OMB and OPM will explore market-based solutions to deliver standardized HR IT capabilities
that “provide high quality service offerings that are responsive and adaptable to agency business
needs.”6

II.
Immediate Agency Actions

As part of the Federal HR 2.0 effort, agencies are expected to pause their own Core HCM
procurement, development, and related modernization projects. Agencies may seek an exception
from the OMB Director and the OPM Director if there is a critical, time-sensitive update or need
to modernize or procure a new Core HCM system prior to the adoption of the centralized Core
HCM suite.


There are actions that agencies can take now to prepare for the transition, prior to
onboarding onto the single Core HCM system. These actions include identifying appropriate
personnel to support HR 2.0, reviewing agency data and systems, developing change management
strategies, and working internally to prepare staff for migration. These action items are further
detailed in Appendix C. Responses to
these action items should be sent to
workforce@omb.eop.gov and CoreHCM@opm.gov.

5 OMB Memorandum M-19-16, Centralized Mission Support Capabilities for the Federal Government, at
p. 2 (April 26, 2019).
6 Id. at p. 3.









3

OMB and OPM will stand up a Federal HR 2.0 Advisory Board comprising key stakeholder
agencies to assist with governance and change management. In addition, OMB and OPM will
utilize the President’s Management Council, Chief Human Capital Officers Council, Chief
Information Officers Council, Chief Acquisition Officers Council, Chief Data Officers Council,
and Chief Financial Officers Council to provide updates on Federal HR 2.0 implementation.
Appendices A-C to this memo provide details and timing of Core HCM consolidation. Please
direct questions to workforce@omb.eop.gov and CoreHCM@opm.gov.

cc: Deputy Secretaries, Chief Human Capital Officers, Human Resources Directors, Chiefs of
Staff, Chief Information Officers, Chief Acquisition Officers, Chief Data Officers, and Chief
Financial Officers.









4

Appendix A: Agency Transitions (Waves 1 and 2)
Several agencies have proactively identified themselves for inclusion in the initial transition wave
to the Core HCM platform. This transition will start in FY26 and conclude in FY 2027. All
remaining agencies will be part of the second wave, transitioning fully in FY 2027 to the Core
HCM platform.

*May include current DOI customers























5

Appendix B: Sample Timeline for Agency Implementation
























6

Appendix C: What Agencies Should Do Now to Prepare for Core HCM Integration
1. Identify points of contact
2. Prepare for data migration
3. Establish internal project
management and
communications
• Integrated Project Team
Point of Contact (POC)
o For CFO Act agencies,
provide OPM and OMB
with the name of a full-time
project manager.

• Working Group POCs
o Policy, Data, Learning, and
Super User focused
Interagency Working
Groups meet regularly to
address agency readiness,
migration, and testing
coordination.

• Email Distribution List
POCs
o Provide OPM and OMB
with POCs to be included
in an advisory/awareness
capacity on email
distributions and in
information “town hall”
sessions.
• Begin reviewing and
considering what it will take
to transfer HR data.

• Identify legacy data that must
be retained.

• Determine strategy for
preserving data not required
for migration.

• Define integration points,
identify interfacing systems,
document data flows, and
validate integration
requirements.

• Begin engaging Data
Officers/technical staff to
ensure they are prepared to
participate in meetings with
OPM on data migration and
plans for retaining legacy data.

• Identify internal resources to
support project management,
implementation,
communications, training, etc.

• Start identifying agency-
unique requirements that will
need to be considered for
Federal Core HCM.

• Performance Work
Statement (PWS): Review
the PWS Requirements,
Appendix A, to begin
identifying any potential gaps
or areas needing clarification.
